# Smart Sarajevo City Lights 
Smart Sarajevo City Lights is a trail‐blazing project which makes the best out of easily affordable technologies and Internet of Things to make life in Sarajevo more advanced and economical. Citizens of Sarajevo will not have to pay through the nose anymore when they are taking care of taxes on city electric bill, as our project has significant savings in sight.

The first step is to replace low efficient bulbs with LEDs, which could be done without significant additional costs using existing infrastructure. Further savings are achieved by using solar panels to collect and batteries to store solar energy – the same energy could be later used to supply LEDs. For security reasons, in case there is no enough solar energy to charge batteries, the Arduino based system automatically switches to city power rail. Huge improvement in sense of energy consumption and also solution for light pollution has been made by using photosensitive sensor which ensures that lights are lit only if there is no enough daylight. Motion detector has also been installed in pair with each set of LEDs to provide additional savings by automatically decreasing light intensity to 50% when no motion is detected, thus cutting down the redundant usage of energy.

Our solution not only deals with energy savings and light pollution, but also provides air quality monitoring by extending the system with sensors for measuring temperature, particles and humidity levels. As Arduino boards are connected through Wi-Fi to the web server at all times, those measurements are instantly displayed on the website through live map and dynamic spline charts. User support would not have been complete without apps for Windows and Apple handheld devices, which allow users to accurately monitor sensor readings on every location, on the go. 

Last but not least, it is of great importance to mention the Green Arena movement as something we are all extremely proud of. This movement is our attempt to stimulate citizens of Sarajevo to actively take part in the process of making a smarter Sarajevo, and all they need to do is to install a monitoring system near their home, so they can track down air pollution levels for their location directly from our website. Citizens can make a real difference through all sorts of eco‐actions, subsequently putting their street on the map as the least polluted street in the area. 

To sum up, if everything goes as planned, it is quite reasonable to expect that the amount of money city pays out for street lighting will dramatically drop at the end of the year. The numbers will go around 30‐40% in the short term, and 70‐80% in the long run, therefore making citizens content and their wallets thicker.

